Additional authentication methods for OpenStack source providers (#404)
kubev2v/forklift-documentation: documentation/modules/ostack-app-cred-auth.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * documentation/doc-Migration_Toolkit_for_Virtualization/master.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="openstack-application-credential-authentication_{context}"]
= Using application credential authentication with an {osp} source provider

You can use application credential authenication instead of username/password authentication when you use {product-first} to migrate a virtual machine that has an {osp} source provider.

> {project-short} supports both of the following types of token authentication:

Reviewer: token?

* Application credential ID
* Application credential name

For each type of application credential authentication, you need to use data from OpenStack to create a `Secret` manifes

.Prerequisites

Have an {osp} account.

.Procedure

. In the dashbord of the {osp} web console, click your name and then cick *Openstack RC file* to download the `<openstack_password_authentication>` file.
. To get the data needed for token authetication run the following command:

> +

Reviewer: It looks like the path is different for the downstream Red Hat OpenStack: Expand the `Project` dropdown menu and click `API Access`, then expand the `Download Openstack RC file` and click `Openstack RC file` (there's also de possibility to download the clouds.yaml file).

[source,terminal]
----
$ openstack credential create --role member --role reader --secret redhat forklift
----
+
The output includes:
+
* The `id` (`applicationCredentialID` in the `Secret` manifest below) and `secret` (`applicationCredentialSecret` in the `Secret` manifest below)  you need for an application credential ID.

> * The `name` (`applicationCredentialName` in the `Secret` manifest below) and `secret` (`applicationCredentialSecret` in the `Secret` manifest below) you need an application credential name. You also must define the `domainName` and the `username` if you use this method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The `name` (`applicationCredentialName` in the `Secret` manifest below) and `secret` (`applicationCredentialSecret` in the `Secret` manifest below) you need for an application credential name. You also must define the `domainName` and the `username` if you use this method.
```

Author: Fixed.

. For authentication using application credential ID, create a `Secret` manifest using the data from the output file similar to the following:
+
[source,yaml]
----
cat << EOF | oc apply -f -
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: openstack-secret-appid
  namespace: konveyor-forklift
  labels:
    createdForProviderType: openstack
type: Opaque
data:
  authType: applicationcredential
  applicationCredentialID: <id_from_openstack_rc_file>

>   applicationCredentialSecret: <secret_from_openstack_rc_file>

Author: @mmartinv You're right...but I still have some questions.
1. I want to give a generic name to the file you get when you click Openstack RC file. What would you suggest? <openstack_rc_file>, <openstack_password_authenticatio>, or something else? 
2. Does that file name need to be in the openstack commands in the procedures? 
3.  In the manifest, should the callouts say <secret_from_file>, <secret_from_file_output>, or something else? file=the name we use in #1.

>   applicationCredentialSecret: <secret_from_openstack_rc_file>

Reviewer: 1. `openstack_rc_file` is good I would say.
2. Not really, that file is only to make sure the user knows where to find the fields that are not part of the OpenStack CLI command output. For example, if the user wants to authenticate with application credentials name, the required `domainName` field is not in the `openstack credential create` command.
3. I think It's a good idea to mention from where the information is taken, the command output or the rc file so I would maintain  `name_from_openstack_rc_file` and will replace `user_specified` `user_id_from_openstack_token_issue_output`  (or similar).

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * documentation/doc-Migration_Toolkit_for_Virtualization/master.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="openstack-application-credential-authentication_{context}"]
= Using application credential authentication with an {osp} source provider

> You can use application credential authentication instead of username/password authentication when you use {project-first} to migrate a virtual machine that has an {osp} source provider.

Reviewer 2: @RichardHoch 
Same as above: "username and password"

{project-short} supports both of the following types of application credential authentication:

* Application credential ID
* Application credential name

For each type of application credential authentication, you need to use data from OpenStack to create a `Secret` manifest.

.Prerequisites

> Have an {osp} account.

Reviewer 2: @RichardHoch 
Maybe "You have an {osp} account." or just "An {osp} account"

.Procedure

> . In the dashboard of the {osp} web console, click *Project > API Access*.

Reviewer 2: @RichardHoch 
I think the arrow should not be bold, so "*Project* > *API Access*".

. Expand *Download OpenStack RC file* and click *OpenStack RC file*.

> =

Reviewer 2: @RichardHoch 
Should be '+', not '='.

+
[source, terminal]
----
OS_AUTH_URL
OS_PROJECT_ID
OS_PROJECT_NAME
OS_DOMAIN_NAME
OS_USERNAME
----

. To get the data needed for application credential authentication, run the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ openstack application credential create --role member --role reader --secret redhat forklift
----
+
The output, referred to here as `<openstack_credential_output>`, includes:
+
* The `id`  and `secret` that you need for authentication using an application credential ID
* The `name` and `secret` that you need for authentication using an application credential name

. For authentication using the application credential ID, create a `Secret` manifest similar to the following:
+
[source,yaml]
----
cat << EOF | oc apply -f -
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: openstack-secret-appid
  namespace: openshift-mtv
  labels:
    createdForProviderType: openstack
type: Opaque
stringData:
  authType: applicationcredential
  applicationCredentialID: <id_from_openstack_credential_output>
  applicationCredentialSecret: <secret_from_openstack_credential_output>
  url: <OS_AUTH_URL_from_openstack_rc_file>
EOF
----

> . For authentication using the application credential name, create a `Secret` manifest similar to the following:

Reviewer 2: @RichardHoch 
The user doesn't need both application credential ID and application credential name, does he? If he doesn't need both, then their manifests should be bulleted rather numbered. Something like this:
. Create a `Secret` manifest similar to the following:
* For authentication using the application credential ID:

* For authentication using the application credential name:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * documentation/doc-Migration_Toolkit_for_Virtualization/master.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="openstack-application-credential-authentication_{context}"]
= Using application credential authentication with an {osp} source provider

You can use application credential authentication instead of username/password authentication when you use {project-first} to migrate a virtual machine that has an {osp} source provider.

{project-short} supports both of the following types of application credential authentication:

* Application credential ID
* Application credential name

For each type of application credential authentication, you need to use data from OpenStack to create a `Secret` manifest.

.Prerequisites

Have an {osp} account.

.Procedure

. In the dashboard of the {osp} web console, click *Project > API Access*.
. Expand *Download OpenStack RC file* and click *OpenStack RC file*.
=
The file that is downloaded, referred to here as `<openstack_rc_file>` includes the following fields used for application credential authentication:
+
[source, terminal]
----

> OS_AUTH_URL=http://192.168.100.181:5000

Reviewer 3: Do we need to show the values of fields in openstack_rc_file?
I think it's enough to only show the fields' names.

Author: Fixed.

OS_PROJECT_ID=dbed38bf449b495295868afa61a565dc
OS_PROJECT_NAME="forklift"
OS_DOMAIN_NAME="Default"
OS_USERNAME="forklift"
----

. To get the data needed for application credential authentication, run the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ openstack credential create --role member --role reader --secret redhat forklift

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
$ openstack application credential create --role member --role reader --secret redhat forklift
```

Author: Added.

----
+
The output, referred to here as `<openstack_credential_output>`, includes:
+
* The `id` (`applicationCredentialID` in the `Secret` manifest below) and `secret` (`applicationCredentialSecret` in the `Secret` manifest below) that you need for authentication using an application credential ID.
* The `name` (`applicationCredentialName` in the `Secret` manifest below) and `secret` (`applicationCredentialSecret` in the `Secret` manifest below) that you need for authentication using an application credential name. You also must use `OS_DOMAIN_NAME` from `<openstack_rc_file>`if you use this method.

> 

Author: @anarnold97 Style question: Do you think the parenthetical comments in lines 47-48 should be dropped? The documentation of the manifests below now contains the same information and I think  the comments, written in an earlier draft, now clutter the writing rather than adding useful information as they used to. WDYT?

Reviewer 4: Remove. please

Reviewer 4: @RichardHoch - changed

. For authentication using the application credential ID, create a `Secret` manifest similar to the following:
+
[source,yaml]
----
cat << EOF | oc apply -f -
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: openstack-secret-appid

>   namespace: konveyor-forklift

Author: Changed in all the PR's manifests.

  labels:
    createdForProviderType: openstack
type: Opaque

> data:

Author: Fixed.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * documentation/doc-Migration_Toolkit_for_Virtualization/master.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="openstack-application-credential-authentication_{context}"]
= Using application credential authentication with an {osp} source provider

> You can use application credential authentication instead of username and password authentication when you use {project-first} to migrate a virtual machine that has an {osp} source provider.

Reviewer 5: see the comment on the file below

> You can use application credential authentication instead of username and password authentication when you use {project-first} to migrate a virtual machine that has an {osp} source provider.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
You can use application credential authentication, instead of username and password authentication, when you use {project-first} to migrate a virtual machine that has an {osp} source provider.
```

> You can use application credential authentication, instead of username and password authentication, when you use {project-first} to migrate a virtual machine that has an {osp} source provider.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
You can use application credential authentication, instead of username and password authentication, when you create an {osp} source provider.
```

{project-short} supports both of the following types of application credential authentication:

* Application credential ID
* Application credential name

For each type of application credential authentication, you need to use data from OpenStack to create a `Secret` manifest.

.Prerequisites

You have an {osp} account.

.Procedure

. In the dashboard of the {osp} web console, click *Project* > *API Access*.
. Expand *Download OpenStack RC file* and click *OpenStack RC file*.
+

> The file that is downloaded, referred to here as `<openstack_rc_file>`, includes the following fields used for application credential authentication:

Reviewer 4: like this line!

> The file that is downloaded, referred to here as `<openstack_rc_file>`, includes the following fields used for application credential authentication:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The file that is downloaded, referred to here as an `<openstack_rc_file>`, includes the following fields used for application credential authentication:
```

Author: No, the file's name, so to speak, is `<openstack_rc_file>`, so there's no need for an article.

. Create a `Secret` manifest similar to the following:

** For authentication using the application credential ID:
+
[source,yaml]
----
cat << EOF | oc apply -f -
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: openstack-secret-appid
  namespace: openshift-mtv
  labels:
    createdForProviderType: openstack
type: Opaque
stringData:
  authType: applicationcredential
  applicationCredentialID: <id_from_openstack_credential_output>
  applicationCredentialSecret: <secret_from_openstack_credential_output>
  url: <OS_AUTH_URL_from_openstack_rc_file>
EOF
----

** For authentication using the application credential name:
+
----
cat << EOF | oc apply -f -
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: openstack-secret-appname
  namespace: openshift-mtv
  labels:
    createdForProviderType: openstack
type: Opaque
stringData:
  authType: applicationcredential
  applicationCredentialName: <name_from_openstack_credential_output>
  applicationCredentialSecret: <secret_from_openstack_credential_output>
  domainName: <OS_DOMAIN_NAME_from_openstack_rc_file>
  username: <OS_USERNAME_from_openstack_rc_file>
  url: <OS_AUTH_URL_from_openstack_rc_file>
EOF
----

> . Continue migrating your virtual machine according to the procedure in link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/migration_toolkit_for_virtualization/2.4/html-single/installing_and_using_the_migration_toolkit_for_virtualization/index#migrating-virtual-machines-from-cli[Migrating virtual machines], starting with step 2, "Create a `Provider` manifest for the source provider."

Reviewer 5: the link shouldn't point to 2.4

Reviewer 4: i would prefer an `xref` if possible... but i am picky about this, which should resolve the 2.4 issue
